Enhance documentation of translations. (#487)
python/devguide: documenting.rst

| Hungarian    | `Tamás Bajusz      | `github <https://github.com/python/      |
| (hu)         | (gbtami) <http://b | python-docs-hu/>`__                      |
|              | ugs.python.org/use |                                          |
|              | r25857>`__         | `list <https://mail.python.org/pipermail/|
|              |                    | python-hu/>`__                           |
|              |                    |                                          |
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Italian (it) |                    | `mail <https://mail.python.org/pipermail/|
|              |                    | doc-sig/2019-April/004114.html>`__       |
|              |                    |                                          |
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Japanese     | `Inada Naoki       | `github <https://github.com/python/      |
| (ja)         | (methane) <https:/ | python-docs-ja/>`__                      |
|              | /bugs.python.org/u |                                          |

> |              | ser10371>`__       | `doc <https://docs.python.org/ja/>`__    |

Reviewer: Please change contact to @cocoatomo https://bugs.python.org/user19001

Author: OK done.

| Traditional  | 廖偉涵 Adrian Liaw | `github <https://github.com/python/      |
| Chinese      |                    | python-docs-zh-tw/>`__                   |
| (zh-tw)      |                    |                                          |
|              |                    | `transifex <https://www.transifex.com/   |
|              |                    | python-tw-doc/python-36-tw>`__           |
|              |                    |                                          |
|              |                    | `doc <https://docs.python.org/zh-tw/>`__ |
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Turkish (tr) |                    | `github <https://github.com/alaeddingurel|
|              |                    | /python-docs-tr>`__                      |
|              |                    |                                          |
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------------------------+

Starting a new translation
--------------------------

First subscribe to the `doc-sig
<https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_ mailing list,

> introduce yourself and the translation you're starting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and introduce yourself and the translation you're starting.
```

Author: Is it mandatory? I kind of prefer it without the and.

Reviewer 3: Yes.  Or divide into two sentences. 'mailing list.  Next introduce'

Reviewer 2: It just feels better with it IMO but whatever :)

Author: OK :) thanks

Then you can bootstrap your new translation by using our `cookiecutter

> <https://github.com/JulienPalard/python-docs-cookiecutter>`__.

Reviewer 2: Should this be moved to `github.com/python/python-docs-cookiecutter`?

Author: Not sure it's necessary, let's not change everything today.

Reviewer 2: Just asking but fine with me

The important steps looks like this:

- Create the github repo (anywhere), with the right hierarchy (using the
  cookiecutter).
- Gather people to help you translating, you can't do it alone.
- You can use any tool to translate, as long as you can synchronize with git,
  some are using Transifex, some are using only github, you can choose another
  way, it's up to you.
- Ensure we updated this page to reflect your work and progress, either via a
  PR, or by asking on the doc-sig mailing list.
- When ``tutorial/``, ``library/stdtypes`` and ``library/functions``
  are complete, ask on doc-sig for your language to be added in the
  language picker on docs.python.org.

PEP 545: TL;DR
--------------

The :PEP:`545` may be long to read, so here are the interesting points:

- Each translation is assigned an appropriate lowercased language tag,
  with an optional region subtag (if needed), glued with a dash, like
  ``pt-br`` or ``fr``.

> - Translations files are hosted on

Reviewer 2: Well tbh only the ones advanced enough, not all of them 🤔 how can we reflect that ?

  ``https://github.com/python/python-docs-{LANGUAGE_TAG}``

- Translations having completed ``tutorial/``, ``library/stdtypes``
  and ``library/functions`` are hosted on
  ``https://docs.python.org/{LANGUAGE_TAG}/{VERSION_TAG}/``.

How to get help
---------------

Discussions about translations occur on the `doc-sig
<https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_ mailing list,
and there's a freenode IRC channel, ``#python-doc``.

Translation FAQ
---------------

Which version of Python documentation should be translated?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Concensus is to work on current stable, you can then propagate your
translation from a branch to another using `pomerge
<https://pypi.org/p/pomerge>`__.

> Are there some tools to help in managing the repo?

Reviewer 2: Should those tools be moved to be hosted on `github.com/python/xxx` ? Or is it useless ?

Author: Same, there's OK where they are.

|              |                    | python-tw-doc/python-36-tw>`__           |
|              |                    |                                          |
|              |                    | `doc <https://docs.python.org/zh-tw/>`__ |
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------------------------+
| Turkish (tr) |                    | `github <https://github.com/alaeddingurel|
|              |                    | /python-docs-tr>`__                      |
|              |                    |                                          |
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------------------------+

Starting a new translation
--------------------------

First subscribe to the `doc-sig
<https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_ mailing list,
introduce yourself and the translation you're starting.

Then you can bootstrap your new translation by using our `cookiecutter
<https://github.com/JulienPalard/python-docs-cookiecutter>`__.

The important steps looks like this:

- Create the github repo (anywhere), with the right hierarchy (using the
  cookiecutter).
- Gather people to help you translating, you can't do it alone.

> - You can use any tool to translate, as long as you can synchronize with git,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You can use any tool to translate, as long as you can synchronize with git.
```

>   some are using Transifex, some are using only github, you can choose another

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Some are using Transifex, some are using only github, or you can choose another
```

  way, it's up to you.
- Ensure we updated this page to reflect your work and progress, either via a
  PR, or by asking on the doc-sig mailing list.
- When ``tutorial/``, ``library/stdtypes`` and ``library/functions``
  are complete, ask on doc-sig for your language to be added in the
  language picker on docs.python.org.

> PEP 545: TL;DR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PEP 545 summary:
```

--------------

> The :PEP:`545` may be long to read, so here are the interesting points:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are the essential points of :PEP:`545`:
```

- Each translation is assigned an appropriate lowercased language tag,

>   with an optional region subtag (if needed), glued with a dash, like

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  with an optional region subtag, joined with a dash, like
```
'optional' and 'if needed' are redundant.

  and ``library/functions`` are hosted on
  ``https://docs.python.org/{LANGUAGE_TAG}/{VERSION_TAG}/``.

How to get help
---------------

Discussions about translations occur on the `doc-sig
<https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_ mailing list,
and there's a freenode IRC channel, ``#python-doc``.

Translation FAQ
---------------

Which version of Python documentation should be translated?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Concensus is to work on current stable, you can then propagate your
translation from a branch to another using `pomerge
<https://pypi.org/p/pomerge>`__.

Are there some tools to help in managing the repo?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here's what's we're using:

- `pomerge <https://pypi.org/p/pomerge>`__ to propagate translation
  from a files to others.
- `pospell <https://pypi.org/p/pospell>`__ to check for typo in po files.
- `powrap <https://pypi.org/p/powrap>`__ to rewrap the ``.po`` files
  before committing, this helps keeping git diffs short.
- `potodo <https://pypi.org/p/potodo>`__ to list what needs to be translated.

How a coordinator is elected?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> There is no election, each country have to short this out, here's some

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is no election, each country have to sort this out.  Here are some suggestions.
```
spelling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no election, each country have to sort this out. Here are some suggestions
```
Maybe no need for two spaces after the `.` ? 😉

> rule if it helps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
ie, delete

-  Coordinator requests are to be public on doc-sig mailing list.
-  If the given language have a native core dev, the core dev have its
   word on the choice.
-  If one want to become coordinator for its native language, and shows
   motivation by translating and building a community, it will be named

>    coordinator.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion for sentence.
Anyone who wants ... and shows ... will be ... coordinatior.

Author: Ahh thanks, I disliked this one but was unable to find better :(

-  In case of concurrency between two persons, no one will sort this out

>    for you, it’s open to you to organize a local election or whatever

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   for you.  It is up to you two to organize a local election or whatever
```

   needed to sort this out.
-  In case a coordinator become inactive or unreachable for a long
   period of time, someone else can ask for a takeover on doc-sig.

The entry for my translation is missing/not up to date on this page
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ask on doc-sig, or better, make a PR on the `devguide
<https://github.com/python/devguide/>`__.

I have a translation, but not on git, what should I do?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Just ask for help on the doc-sig mailing list and our python-fu, git-fu
and bash-fu combined will help you create an appropriate repository. If

> you use a tool like transifex don’t worry keeping them in sync is not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you use a tool like transifex don’t worry.  Keeping them in sync is not
```

that hard.

My git hierarchy does not match yours, can I keep it?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

No, inside the ``github.com/python`` organization we’ll all have the
exact same hierarchy so bots will be able to build all of our
translations. So you may have to convert from one hierarchy to another.
Ask for help on the doc-sig mailing list if you’re not sure on how to do
it.

What hierarchy should I use in my github repository?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> As for every projects we have a *branch* per version, we store ``po``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As for every project, we have a *branch* per version.  We store ``po``
```
